First draft of 'little and often' (#17)
NHSDigital/software-engineering-quality-framework: patterns/little-and-often.md

# Deliver little and often

## Context

* These notes are part of a broader set of [principles](../principles.md)
* This pattern is closely related to the [architect for flow](architect-for-flow.md) pattern

## The pattern

Delivering "little and often" has broad benefits across the software delivery process:
* Incremental software changes: delivering many small software changes is preferable to infrequent delivery of larger changes

> * Incremental team operations: working incrementally (for example re-planning frequently and iteratively refining the arhictecture and technology choices) is preferable to large up-front planning and design, or long-running delivery cycles

Reviewer: Typo (probably mine):
```suggestion
* Incremental team operations: working incrementally (for example re-planning frequently and iteratively refining the architecture and technology choices) is preferable to large up-front planning and design, or long-running delivery cycles
```

## Benefits

* Increased safety and predictability:
    * Changing less at a time means there is less (per change) to go wrong
    * Frequently-run processes are more predictable (simply because they are run more frequently)
    * The automation required means less exposure to human error
    * The automation required supports quick responses if there is a problem
    * Quality checks are applied more frequently
    * Frequent changes make it easier to keep everything up to date
* Business benefits:
    * Early visibility of changes
    * Early benefit realisation
    * Smaller changes should require less user training, user communications, etc
    * Happier delivery team
* Cost (in the long term):

>     * The automation required means long-term savings on manual effort

Reviewer: Somehow the use of the word "required" stands out a little as potentially negative. Maybe:
```suggestion
    * The automation which supports frequent changes means long-term savings on manual effort
```
